to print or not to print that is the
question you came here for the truth so
let me unveil that for you we've heard a
lot the interest rates are going to get
cut in 2024 the Federal Reserve is going
to print a whole bunch of money in 2024
we are going to see it because ab and C
well in today's video I'm going to tell
you why the US government itself is
going to force the Federal Reserve to
print cash I'm talking about real
serious
unavoidable cash how does that sound
stick with me G bring it to you you've
probably seen this before with layoffs
going on the economy not of course not
as strong as they tell us and so massive
layoffs are coming in 2024 survey of 900
company says that four in 10 are
planning layoffs citing the coming
recession and more than half are
freezing highers that comes as as of
brutal uh 2023 with layoffs doubling in
the year biggest hits are Tech
Construction finance and Retail now that
shop lifting is legal that's what they
say here okay so we see that in
different Industries it is affecting a
lot of different people and of course
layoffs give a very big signal of what's
going on in the economy so that's one
thing keep that in mind what's on top of
that is debt there is a very big problem
with debt because when I look at it
across the Spectrum it's at the highest
it's ever been in every single category
but just having too much debt
is not necessarily a problem it does
though create more gunpowder or more
fuel for the fire you understand so just
the number being high in any category
whether that's you know Mortgage Debt
whether it's credit card debt student
loans national debt a bigger number
doesn't necessarily mean it's going to
break but what it does is adds more fuel
into the inevitable fire so let me show
you a few things okay I got several
charts this is the yield curve inversion
that happened and then as it comes the
other direction the you know the
steepening the um un inversion you know
there's different silly names that they
have for it um but what what does it
mean okay well at this time we are
looking at it we're just seeing it at
you know in this few days span you you
zoom out you start seeing it a different
story okay what we can tell from this is
that when it inverts and then it un
inverts or reverts or goes back it
always ends or in most cases ends in a
recession what is this basically I've
talked about it before but when you have
let's say a 30-year Bond and you have a
one-year Bond well the 30-year you would
assume would give you a better rate of
return than the onee but when that
that's flipped that's an inversion and
so that's what's happening today but now
it's going in the other direction why
what's happening here well the Federal
Reserve is starting to signal that
they're willing to cut rates at some
point they're going to stop with
quantitative tightening and that of
course has an impact on the value of the
currency as well as the bond market
itself okay a lot of jargon but keep
that in mind as well so we have the debt
all debt is going to be there uh with an
interest rate attached to it there's
always going to be an interest rate
attached to it because you're borrowing
it into
existence imagine this debt as a whole
$34 trillion in the US national debt
corporate debt personal debt credit card
student loans each and every one of
those came up out of the ground out of
nowhere came right through the sky here
we go that's where it is and that all
has an interest rate what is that
interest rate well it depends on that
particular instrument at the given time
so if it was a mortgage and they got it
a couple years ago they got it at a
super low interest rate if it was credit
card debt well we know that's over 20%
so all the debt has some sort of
interest rate associated with it got me
okay don't stick with me okay I promise
all going to make sense looking at this
this is talking about the labor market
unemployed to
unemployed to unemployed basically just
telling us that during these periods of
times we tend to see
this basically
people we start to see that the numbers
creeping up and then of course a
recession hits after the same pattern is
happening right now okay um but these
things don't tell you when that happens
right it could be a very long time it
could be very mild it could be very
short or it could be long and painful
doesn't tell you anything necessarily
but we do have several indicators that
are piling up suggesting that there is a
recession coming or it's already on
federal government spending six Monon
moving average looking at it think about
this we've overspent that is the United
States that is Canada this is the UK
every single government spent way too
much money in 2020 and we sort of leaped
w well beyond where we were on that
trajectory it's already bad if we were
on the same trajectory from back in uh
you know let's say those years prior to
2018 2019 it would have been bad but it
went even further than that and not to
mention the fact that we printed so much
money during that period of time it
created so much inflation that we're
dealing with today but now the pace of
this is even worse so the the
expectation is that what you experienced
back in 2020 into the next couple years
after a lot of inflation prices rising
everywhere shrink flation you know the
drill well imagine it's about to get
much worse so that's another piece of
the puzzle you sticking with me right
check this out cumulative fiscal budget
deficit so big deficits lot of debt a
lot of deficits at the same time we've
got the potential for or a recession
slower growth unemployment right even
perhaps a little bit doesn't necessarily
like I said it doesn't have to be a big
bad one depression and so on at least in
what I'm talking about
here we have this 60% of the global
economy is in for a lost decade due to
record debt all right this is for the
World Bank not for me saying this but
countries cannot service their own
debt all right so this is where it
starts to get interesting all right let
me make it very clear no drog again
okay when the government the government
needs to spend money because there's a
recession people are out of work you
want to invest in
infrastructure you want to do something
that requires a lot of money
and that's happening right now as it is
the government is issuing a lot of debt
now and it's been very um unusual to see
that usually there's an infinite amount
of buyers infinite amount of buyers
coming to these auctions these debt
auctions to buy the US debt they know
it's grade A it's the good quality stuff
and they're able to make sure that you
know know however long they're going to
hold that for they're going to get paid
back and the interest rate is going to
be good that interest rate has declined
somewhat the value of the US dollar has
declined somewhat since its peak and
there is a big problem because if they
issue too much debt and they do not have
enough buyers for that debt who then has
to come in to save the
day the Federal Reserve and the Federal
Reserve at this point is all already
starting to suggest little Tibbits here
and there not necessarily their official
statement that they put out fomc says
hey we're going to cut interest rates
and we're going to print a whole bunch
of money you don't get it like that you
get the anecdotal evidence that appears
in little interviews with this and that
you get it through uh the Wall Street
Journal that's signaling to the markets
what's going to happen leaked
information and so this happens the
Federal Reserve comes in and they start
some sort of program
potentially like we we what we saw in
2019 which is a backdoor quantitative
easing doesn't have to come in the form
of an outright quantitative easing the
US government could spend a virtually
infinite amount of money and then they
have to go out into the world and say we
want people to buy this debt come to the
auction let's make it happen and they
have to give a interest rate that is
attractive enough they can always get
more and more but let's say it's at 42%
right now okay you want to take on this
debt here you go put in a nice nice
little bow on this debt you come to the
auction 4 and a half% auction do I do I
have a 450 do I have a 450 no okay what
about 460 what about
470 oh 5% all right we'll sell it to you
and so this is the type of thing that
could longterm basically completely
punish and bankrupt the nation trying to
trying to in a sense build up the
country doing this hey we're going to
spend it and we're going to use it
wisely but then they've got to issue all
that debt not enough people come to the
table or you got to really entice people
by having those interest rates high and
at the same time in the end they have to
monetize that debt because there's just
not enough buyers
and so the Federal Reserve does that the
value declines dramatically of your
currency and you my friends pay the
price this is the trouble that we are
dealing with right now I just piece that
all together I hope you appreciate that
you see for one reason or another they
have to at some point then Force the
Federal Reserve to stop their current
programs and then reverse the other
direction not going to happen tomorrow
but it's going to happen at some point
we have accelerated the pace of this
debt of the expansion and the
devaluation expansion of debt and
deficits but the devaluation of the
currency we've gone at a much quicker
pace so think about this the Cycles run
much shorter potentially and could very
well um become an inflationary problem
um if we didn't have that already uh
very soon
keep that in mind longer term what are
the concerns we have to worry about very
simple that AI Robotics and automation
are disrupting certain industries this
is uh talking about CEs technology show
well robot Barista AI chefs um looking
pretty good in fact think about it if
you could wouldn't you want a robot fast
food like think about not I'm not
talking about fine dining but fast food
and a Raa where you order from your
phone you walk in and there's 10
machines there they're making it faster
there's no lineups ever lineup lineups
are a thing of the past payment physical
payment where you got to give money to
somebody they got they're there two
pennies four pennies 7 P none of that
happens it's an all automated process
and that's the way things are going to
go in order to keep the cost down at a
reasonable level people want stuff
that's cheap that's why they have
dollars stores that's why you know we're
offshoring all the jobs is because
people are unwilling to pay much higher
prices and I understand why then we have
this also talking about Ai and things
that are happening um of course
Artificial Intelligence being the big
one we're talking about that a lot um
all we need to know is that the the
businesses are investing literally
billions and billions of dollars to do
it as fast as possible so you take what
you want from that if you don't want to
believe it that's okay but understand
that billions and billions are being
spent by these big corporations um what
I have to tell you right now is number
one hit a thumbs up if you want to
support this channel I really do
appreciate that very much and those who
are part of my Sunday live class they
get the key they get the secret because
on the Sunday live class that's where I
talk about how to build a business
specifically online businesses but also
to Rick and mortar so you create a
physical product and we you know I can
help you out with all of that and that's
part of the Sunday live sessions if you
want to know more about that link is in
the description below those people will
be and are at The Cutting Edge of the
information because of all the sources
that I have and the work that I do
outside of the money GPS I want to thank
you for being here and of course you got
to join me tomorrow I'll see you then
take care